Visualizations have become an effective and pervasive mode of communicating data on web. They are not only used to represent the data but also act as a tool to aid the data analysis process. Interactive visualizations provide the users an effective and fast way of getting to the _right query_. The query specification process in such systems is an interactive experience where the next user action is dictated by the system feedback from the previous actions. These kind of systems have a tight constraint on the query response time, as even a time delay of 20 ms between the user action and system response is noticeable. 

Most web based interactive data visualization applications download the entire data on the web browsers, and use Javascript query processing engines. This approach works well when the dataset is small enough to fit in the client memory. These systems do not have to deal with network latency in the query specification session. The applications with larger datasets employ sampling or other probabilistic algorithms on the server side to process the data quickly. Even though the server hardware and query processing engines are more efficient than any web browser based engines, these applications deal with network latency. Generally network latency makes up for the most of the time spent between the user action and the system response. There have been efforts to overcome the this issue by employing data shipping architectures with semantic cache. Although effective, these approaches tend to assign the entire query processing load to the web based clients. Client side web technologies have come a long way in the past few years. However, they are still not as efficient as server side technologies, and the amount of resources available to a web client is lesser than that available to data/application servers.       

We present a data sketch based approach to make Visual Data Exploration a fluid experience. The data sketches are built on the backend, and prefetched and cached on clients. The client side engine processes the queries using the data sketches providing approximate results with no perceivable delay. This is similar to data shipping approach, the difference being the server doesn't ship the actual data blocks to the client but only a summary of the data in forms of sketches. The small memory footprint of data sketches make it possible for the system to operate over a larger dataset than a typical data shipping architecture can support. The sketches we use are amenable to updates, and hence can be maintained in a preemptive cache. The sketch based approach compromises on the accuracy for providing a smooth, and fluid experience. The error in the result is bound by a constant factor $\epsilon$ with probability $\delta$. These factors can be tuned to get the desired balance between the accuracy and the response time.

    

